a: a
ali: or
angleški: English
anglež: Englishman
anglije: England
april: April
avgust: August
avgustu: August
avto: car
avtobus: bus
babica: grandmother
babico: grandmother
bal: feared
banan: bananas
banana: banana
bartek: Bartek
barv: colors
barvo: color
bel: white
bela: white
bele: white
belo: white
bere: reads
berem: I read
bereš: you read
besede: words
bežati: to run away
bi: would
bije: beats
bil: was
bila: was
bili: were
bilo: was
biti: to be
blazina: pillow
bleščati: to shine
bleščijo: shine
blizu: near
bližnji: nearest
bo: will be
bodo: they will be
bogato: richly
bogom: with God
boleti: to hurt
boli: hurts
bolijo: hurt
bolj: more
bolje: better
bom: I will
bomo: we will
boste: you will
boš: you will
brat: brother
brata: brother
brati: to read
bratih: brothers
bratom: brother
brez: without
cena: price
ceni: price
centra: center
centru: center
cerkev: church
cesta: road
cmok: dumpling
cvet: flower
cveteti: to bloom
cveti: blooms
cvetijo: bloom
cvetje: flowers
cvetovi: flowers
cvre: fries
da: that
daj: give
dajati: to give
daje: gives
dajemo: we give
daješ: you give
dajo: they give
dajte: give
dal: gave
daleč: far
dali: gave
dam: I give
dan: day
danes: today
darilo: gift
dati: to give
debel: fat
december: December
decembru: December
dedek: grandfather
dedkom: grandfather
dekle: girl
dela: works
delal: worked
delali: worked
delam: I work
delati: to work
delavec: worker
delo: work
delovni: working
deset: ten
deseti: tenth
desno: right
dete: child
devet: nine
devetdeset: ninety
deveti: ninth
devetnajst: nineteen
devetsto: nine hundred
devetstoti: nine hundredth
dež: rain
dežja: rain
dežju: rain
dežuje: it is raining
dišati: to smell
diši: smells
dnevnik: diary
dni: days
do: to
dober: good
dobra: good
dobri: good
dobro: good
dobrodošli: welcome
doda: adds
dokumente: documents
dolar: dollar
dolarje: dollars
dolarjev: dollars
dolg: long
dolga: long
dolge: long
dolgi: long
dolgo: long
dolgočasna: boring
dolina: valley
dolino: valley
dom: home
doma: at home
domov: home
draga: dear
dragocen: valuable
drevesi: trees
drevesu: tree
drevo: tree
drugi: second
družina: family
družino: family
drzen: brave
držati: to hold
država: country
države: country
drži: holds
duh: spirit
duše: soul
dušo: soul
dva: two
dvajset: twenty
dvanajst: twelve
dvanajsti: twelfth
dve: two
dveh: two
dvesto: two hundred
dvestoti: two hundredth
en: one
ena: one
enajst: eleven
enajsti: eleventh
energije: energy
enim: one
eno: one
enota: unit
fant: boy
fanta: boy
fantov: boys
februar: February
februarju: February
figura: figure
figure: figures
film: film
fontana: fountain
franku: franc
ga: him
gladka: smooth
glasba: music
glasbo: music
glava: head
glavi: head
gleda: looks
gledajo: they look
gledamo: we look
gledati: to look
gledaš: you look
gora: mountain
gorami: mountains
govori: speaks
govoril: spoke
govorim: I speak
govoriš: you speak
gozd: forest
gradi: builds
grd: ugly
grde: ugly
gre: goes
gredo: they go
greje: heats
grem: I go
gremo: we go
gresta: they two go
greste: you go
greti: to heat
greš: you go
grozdje: grapes
hitri: fast
hitro: fast
hitrost: speed
hiši: house
hišo: house
hladen: cold
hladno: cold
hlače: trousers
hlevu: barn
hokej: hockey
hokeja: hockey
honduras: Honduras
hotel: hotel
hotela: hotel
hoteti: to want
hoče: wants
hočem: I want
hočeš: you want
hrano: food
hrast: oak
hrastu: oak
hruška: pear
hruške: pears
hrvat: Croat
hrvatica: Croatian woman
hrvaški: Croatian
hvala: thank you
hčerjo: daughter
hči: daughter
igra: plays
igrali: played
igram: I play
igramo: we play
igrati: to play
ima: has
imajo: they have
imam: I have
imaš: you have
ime: name
imel: had
imena: names
in: and
inženir: engineer
iskren: sincere
iskrena: sincere
iz: out of
izgini: disappear
jabolko: apple
jagoda: strawberry
jagode: strawberries
jajca: eggs
jajce: egg
januar: January
januarju: January
jaz: I
je: is
jed: dish
jedi: dishes
jedjo: dish
jem: I eat
jemo: we eat
jesen: autumn
jeseni: autumn
jesti: to eat
jezen: angry
jezeru: lake
jezik: language
jezika: language
jezike: languages
jezno: angrily / angry
jezo: anger
ješ: you eat
jih: them
jim: them
jug: south
jugovzhod: southeast
jugozahodu: southwest
jugu: south
julij: July
junij: June
jutri: tomorrow
jutro: morning
južni: southern
južno: southern
k: to
kaj: what
kako: how
kamen: stone
kamni: stones
kamnu: stone
kapa: cap
kapo: cap
kar: what / which
kava: coffee
kave: coffee
kazati: to show
kaže: shows
kdo: who
ki: who / which
kino: cinema
kisel: sour
kisla: sour
kitaro: guitar
kje: where
kjer: where
klobasa: sausage
klobase: sausages
kmalu: soon
knjiga: book
knjige: book
knjigo: book
knjižnica: library
knjižnice: library
knjižnici: library
ko: when
kod: where to
koga: whom
koles: bicycle
kolesa: bicycles
koliko: how much
kolo: bicycle
kom: whom
kompas: compass
kompleksna: complex
komu: to whom
konj: horse
konju: horse
konzerva: can
konča: ends
kos: piece
kosilo: lunch
kost: bone
kostanjev: chestnut
kostanjeve: chestnut
kosti: bones
kot: as / like
kozarec: glass
košarka: basketball
košarko: basketball
koža: skin
kraji: places
kratka: short
kratke: short
krog: circle
krožnik: plate
kruh: bread
kruha: bread
kuha: cooks
kuhamo: we cook
kuhar: cook
kuhati: to cook
kuhinja: kitchen
kuhinje: kitchen
kulturo: culture
kupec: buyer
kupila: bought
kupim: I buy
kupiti: to buy
kupuje: buys
kupujejo: they buy
kupujemo: we buy
kvadrat: square
kvadrata: square
lahko: can / possible
las: hair
lase: hair
lasje: hair
len: lazy
leni: lazy
lep: beautiful
lepa: beautiful
lepe: beautiful
lepi: beautiful
lepo: beautiful
lesa: wood
letni: yearly
leto: year / summer
levo: left
ležati: to lie down
leži: lies
ležijo: lie
ležita: they two lie
limona: lemon
linija: line
liniji: line
list: leaf
listje: foliage
ljubek: lovely
ljubezen: love
ljubezni: love
ljubi: loves
ljubijo: love
ljubim: I love
ljubimo: we love
ljubiti: to love
ljubiš: you love
ljubke: lovely
ljubki: lovely
ljudem: people
ljudi: people
ljudje: people
loncu: pot
lonec: pot
luna: moon
maj: May
majhen: small
majhna: small
majica: t-shirt
majico: t-shirt
manj: less
marec: March
mase: mass
masla: butter
maslo: butter
maslom: butter
matematika: mathematics
materjo: mother
mati: mother
mačk: cats
mačka: cat
mačke: cats
mački: cats
med: between / honey
medved: bear
medvedu: bear
mehka: soft
melona: melon
mene: me
meni: me / thinks
menjajo: they change
mesec: month
meso: meat
mesti: city
mestih: cities
mesto: city
mestu: city
metoda: method
mi: we
minut: minutes
minuta: minute
mir: peace
mirne: peaceful
mirno: peacefully
misli: thinks
miza: table
mize: table
mizi: table
mizo: table
miš: mouse
miši: mice
mlad: young
mlada: young
mladi: young
mleka: milk
mleko: milk
moder: blue
modra: blue
modre: blue
modri: blue
modro: blue
mogoče: maybe
moj: my
moja: my
moje: my
mojo: my
moker: wet
mokra: wet
molčati: to be silent
molči: is silent
morje: sea
most: bridge
mostu: bridge
močan: strong
močna: strong
močno: strongly
moški: man
moških: men
možem: man
možgani: brain
možno: possible
mraz: cold / frost
mraza: cold / frost
mu: him
na: on
nad: above
nadzoruje: controls
najlepša: most beautiful
najljubši: favorite
najti: to find
nalog: tasks
naloga: task
nalogo: task
nami: us
napolnilo: filled
napolnjena: filled
naravna: natural
naravnost: straight
naredi: does / makes
narod: nation
narodov: nations
naroči: orders
nas: us
načrt: plan
našimi: our
ne: no
nebo: sky
nebu: sky
nedelja: Sunday
nemec: German
nemčiji: Germany
nemški: German
nese: carries
nesejo: carry
nesti: to carry
neumen: stupid
neumnosti: nonsense
ni: is not
nima: does not have
nimam: I do not have
nimaš: you do not have
nisem: I am not
nisi: you are not
niso: they are not
nizek: low
nizka: low
nizko: low
nič: nothing
njegov: his
njegova: his
njegovi: his
njem: him
njen: her
njena: her
njeni: her
njeno: her
noga: leg
nogavica: sock
nogavice: socks
nogi: leg
nogo: leg
nogomet: football
nos: nose
nosi: carries
nosil: carried
nosim: I carry
nositi: to carry
nov: new
nova: new
nove: new
november: November
novo: new
noč: night
noče: doesn't want
nož: knife
nožem: knife
noži: knives
o: about
ob: at / by
oblak: cloud
oblaki: clouds
oblakov: clouds
oblači: dresses
oblačil: clothes
oblačila: clothes
oblačiti: to dress
oblačno: cloudy
obleko: dress
oblika: shape
obliki: shape
obliko: shape
obraz: face
obris: outline
obutev: footwear
od: from
odprta: open
odprto: open
ogledalo: mirror
okni: window
okno: window
oko: eye
oktober: October
okusna: tasty
okusno: tasty
omara: wardrobe
omari: wardrobe
omejena: limited
on: he
ona: she
one: they
oni: they
ono: it
oranžen: orange
oranžno: orange
osem: eight
osemdeset: eighty
osemnajst: eighteen
osemsto: eight hundred
osmi: eighth
osnovni: basic
oster: sharp
otroci: children
otrok: child
otroki: children
oče: father
očeh: eyes
oči: eyes
pada: falls
padajoče: falling
padal: fell
padati: to fall
palačinka: pancake
papir: paper
papirju: paper
pardon: pardon
park: park
peresom: feather
pero: feather
pes: dog / poem
pesmi: songs / poems
pet: five
peta: fifth
petdeset: fifty
petek: Friday
peti: fifth
petkom: Friday
petnajst: fifteen
petsto: five hundred
pico: pizza
piha: blows
pije: drinks
pijemo: we drink
piješ: you drink
pika: dot / full stop
pisar: scribe
pisarni: office
pisati: to write
pisma: letters
piti: to drink
piva: beer
pivo: beer
piše: writes
pišem: I write
pišemo: we write
pižama: pajamas
plamenu: flame
plavamo: we swim
plavanje: swimming
plavati: to swim
plašč: coat
plesati: to dance
plešem: I dance
po: after / by
pod: under
podoben: similar
podpisan: signed
pogosto: often
pogovor: conversation
pohod: hike
pojdi: go
poje: sings / eats
pojem: I sing / I eat
pokazati: to show
pokaže: shows
pokažete: you show
pokrajino: landscape
poleti: in summer / flies
poletja: summer
poletje: summer
polica: shelf
policist: policeman
polj: fields
poljak: Pole
polje: field
polji: fields
poljska: Poland
poljske: Poland
polju: field
poln: full
polna: full
polnoč: midnight
polnoči: midnight
pomaga: helps
pomagala: helped
pomagali: helped
pomagamo: we help
pomagati: to help
pomaranč: oranges
pomaranča: orange
pomaranče: oranges
pomemben: important
pomembna: important
pomeni: means
pomlad: spring
ponedeljek: Monday
ponedeljku: Monday
ponev: frying pan
ponosen: proud
ponosno: proudly
ponovi: repeats
ponvi: frying pan
poper: pepper
popra: pepper
popust: discount
portret: portrait
poskusiti: to try
poskuša: tries
poslušajo: they listen
poslušati: to listen
postaja: station
postajo: station
postelja: bed
posteljo: bed
pot: path / way
potem: then
potovati: to travel
potreboval: needed
potrebuje: needs
potuje: travels
pove: says
povezati: to connect
povezuje: connects
poveže: connects
pozdrav: greeting
pozdravi: greetings
pozimi: in winter
pozna: knows / late
počitek: rest
počitka: rest
počitnice: holidays
počutim: I feel
prazna: empty
pred: before
predmet: object / subject
prepozno: too late
prepričan: convinced
preprost: simple
preprosta: simple
preprosto: simply
prestrašen: scared
prestrašeno: scared
previden: careful
pri: at / by
prihaja: is coming
prijatelj: friend
prijateljem: friend
prijateljev: friends
prijatelji: friends
prijetno: pleasant
prinesla: brought
pripravljen: ready
prodaja: sells
prodajalcu: seller
prodajalec: seller
prodajati: to sell
prosim: please
prospekt: brochure
proti: against
prst: finger
prvi: first
psov: dogs
psu: dog
ptica: bird
pticam: birds
ptici: bird
rad: gladly / like
radio: radio
radost: joy
radosten: joyful
radostno: joyfully
raste: grows
rastejo: grow
rasti: to grow
raven: flat / level
ravna: flat / straight
razbit: broken
razbito: broken
razumel: understood
razumem: I understand
račun: bill / account
računalnik: computer
računalnike: computers
računalnikov: computers
rdeč: red
rdeča: red
rdeče: red
rdeči: red
rdečo: red
reakcija: reaction
regija: region
reka: river
reke: river
reki: river
reko: river
resnico: truth
restavracijo: restaurant
rezati: to cut
reže: cuts
riba: fish
ribi: fish
ribo: fish
risati: to draw
riše: draws
roka: hand
rokavica: glove
rokavice: gloves
roki: hand
roko: hand
romane: novels
rubelj: ruble
rubljev: rubles
rumen: yellow
rumena: yellow
rumeno: yellow
rus: Russian
rusiji: Russia
ruskega: Russian
rusko: Russian
s: with
sam: alone / self
samo: only
sanje: dreams
se: oneself / itself
sebi: oneself
seboj: oneself
sede: sits
sedem: seven
sedemdeset: seventy
sedemnajst: seventeen
sedemsto: seven hundred
sedenje: sitting
sedeti: to sit
sedi: sits
sedmi: seventh
sekund: seconds
sekunda: second
sem: I am
semafor: traffic light
september: September
serijo: series
sesti: to sit down
sestra: sister
sestro: sister
sever: north
severa: north
severna: northern
severni: northern
severozahodna: northwestern
severu: north
si: you are
sijalo: shined
simbol: symbol
sin: son
sinom: son
sir: cheese
sira: cheese
situacijo: situation
siv: gray
sivi: gray
skleda: bowl
skledi: bowl
skodelica: cup
skodelice: cup
skodelico: cup
skrinja: chest
skriva: hides
skrivati: to hide
skupino: group
slab: bad
slaba: bad
slabe: bad
sladek: sweet
sladka: sweet
sladke: sweet
sladko: sweet
sladkor: sugar
sladkorja: sugar
slika: picture
slikam: I paint / I take a picture
slikamo: we paint / we take pictures
slikati: to paint / to take a picture
slike: pictures
sliko: picture
sliv: plums
sliva: plum
slivovko: plum brandy
slišal: heard
slišati: to hear
sliši: hears
slovan: Slav
slovanski: Slavic
slovansko: Slavic
smejati: to laugh
smeji: laughs
smo: we are
sneg: snow
snega: snow
snegom: snow
so: they are
soba: room
sobe: room
sobi: room
sobota: Saturday
sok: juice
soka: juice
sol: salt
soli: salt
sonc: sun
sonca: sun
sonce: sun
spat: to sleep
spati: to sleep
spi: sleeps
spodnjice: underwear
spomladi: in spring
sprašuje: asks
spreminja: changes
spreminjali: changed
spreminjati: to change
srajca: shirt
srajco: shirt
sram: shame
sramoten: shameful
sramotno: shamefully
srce: heart
srcu: heart
srebrna: silver
sreda: Wednesday
sredini: middle
sredo: Wednesday
sta: they two are
stadion: stadium
stadionu: stadium
star: old
stara: old
stari: old
staro: old
starost: age
starš: parent
stati: to stand
ste: you are
steklenic: bottles
steklenica: bottle
steklenice: bottle
steklenico: bottle
stena: wall
steni: wall
sto: hundred
stoji: stands
stojimo: we stand
stol: chair
stopali: feet
stopalo: foot
stoti: hundredth
strah: fear
stran: side / away
strani: side
stric: uncle
stricem: uncle
stvar: thing
stvari: things
suh: dry / thin
suha: dry / thin
suho: dry / thin
svetel: bright
sveti: shines / holy
svetilka: lamp
svetiti: to shine
svetli: bright
svetlobo: light
svež: fresh
sveža: fresh
svoj: his/her/its/their own
svoje: his/her/its/their own
svojo: his/her/its/their own
ta: this
tako: so / thus
tam: there
tamta: that
tamtisti: that
tamto: that
te: you (accusative)
tebe: you (genitive)
tebi: you (dative)
teboj: you (instrumental)
teden: week
tedna: week
tednu: week
tega: this
teh: these
tej: this
tek: run / running
telesne: bodily
telesu: body
telo: body
tem: this
temen: dark
temna: dark
temni: dark
temu: this
tenis: tennis
ter: and
teta: aunt
teto: aunt
teče: runs / flows
tečejo: run / flow
teči: to run / to flow
težek: heavy / difficult
težka: heavy / difficult
težki: heavy / difficult
ti: you (singular informal)
tih: quiet
tiha: quiet
tihi: quiet
tisoč: thousand
tisoči: thousands
tista: that
tisti: that
tistim: those
tleh: ground
to: this
topel: warm
topla: warm
topli: warm
toplo: warm
torba: bag
torbi: bag
torbo: bag
torek: Tuesday
točka: point
traja: lasts
trajati: to last
trava: grass
travo: grass
treba: necessary
trenira: trains
trenirati: to train
trepet: tremor
tretji: third
trg: square / market
trga: square / market
trgovina: shop
trgovine: shop
trgovini: shop
trgu: square / market
tri: three
trideset: thirty
trideseti: thirtieth
trikotnik: triangle
trinajst: thirteen
tristo: three hundred
trpel: suffered
trpeti: to suffer
tržnica: market
tržnici: market
tu: here
tudi: also
tukaj: here
tuš: shower
tvoj: your
tvojo: your
udoben: comfortable
udobne: comfortable
uho: ear
ulica: street
ulici: street
umetnik: artist
ur: hours
ura: hour / clock
uri: hour / clock
uro: hour / clock
utrujen: tired
učencem: student
učenec: student
uči: learns / teaches
učimo: we learn / we teach
učite: you learn / you teach
učitelj: teacher
učiteljica: teacher
učiti: to learn / to teach
ušesom: ear
v: in
varnost: safety
vas: you (plural)
vaša: your (plural)
ve: knows
vedeti: to know
vedno: always
vedo: they know
velik: big / large
velika: big / large
veliko: much / many
vem: I know
vendar: however
vesel: happy
veselo: happily
vesolje: universe
vesolju: universe
veter: wind
več: more
večer: evening
večerja: dinner
večerji: dinner
večerjo: dinner
vi: you (plural formal)
videl: saw
videli: saw
videti: to see
vidi: sees
vidim: I see
vidimo: we see
vidiš: you see
vikend: weekend
vilica: fork
vilice: forks
vilico: fork
vina: wine
vino: wine
vinogradu: vineyard
viseti: to hang
visi: hangs
visok: high / tall
visoka: high / tall
višnja: cherry
vlada: government
vlak: train
vlakov: trains
vnuk: grandson
vnukinja: granddaughter
vnukinjo: granddaughter
vnukom: grandson
voda: water
vode: water
vodi: water / leads
vodijo: lead
voditi: to lead
vodke: vodka
vodo: water
volk: wolf
volku: wolf
vonj: smell
vozi: drives
voziti: to drive
vprašam: I ask
vprašati: to ask
vrata: door
vratih: door
vračila: return
vračilo: return
vreme: weather
vroč: hot
vroče: hot
vrtnica: rose
vsak: every
vse: all
vstane: stands up
vstati: to stand up
vzhod: east
vzhodna: eastern
vzhodni: eastern
vzhodno: eastern
vzhodu: east
včasih: sometimes
včeraj: yesterday
z: with
za: for
zadnji: last
zahaja: sets
zahod: west
zahodni: western
zahodu: west
zajtrk: breakfast
zame: for me
zanimiv: interesting
zanimiva: interesting
zapis: record
zapisov: records
zapleten: complex
zaprta: closed
zaradi: because of
zavidljivo: enviable
zavist: envy
zbežal: ran away
zdaj: now
zdrav: healthy
zdravje: health
zdravnica: doctor (female)
zdravnik: doctor (male)
zdravo: hello / healthy
zelen: green
zelena: green
zelene: green
zeleno: green
zelo: very
zemlja: earth / land
zemlje: earth / land
zemljevid: map
zemljevidu: map
zemlji: earth / land
zemljo: earth / land
zima: winter
zjutraj: in the morning
zna: knows (how to)
znotraj: inside
zrak: air
zrel: ripe
zrela: ripe
zvezd: stars
zvezda: star
zvezde: stars
zvezek: notebook
zvečer: in the evening
čaj: tea
čaja: tea
čas: time
časa: time
časi: times
če: if
čem: what (locative)
česa: what (genitive)
četrtek: Thursday
četrti: fourth
čez: over / across
čist: clean
čista: clean
človek: human / person
črn: black
črne: black
črno: black
čustva: feelings / emotions
čustvo: feeling / emotion
čuti: feels
čutimo: we feel
čutiti: to feel
šah: chess
šal: scarf
še: still / yet
šel: went (masculine singular)
šest: six
šestdeset: sixty
šesti: sixth
šestnajst: sixteen
šeststo: six hundred
šeststoti: six hundredth
šibak: weak
šibki: weak
šije: sews
široka: wide
široko: wide
šivam: I sew
šivati: to sew
šivaš: you sew
škoda: damage / pity
šla: went (feminine singular)
šli: went (plural)
šlo: went (neuter singular)
šofer: driver
šola: school
šport: sport
športa: sport
športajo: they play sports
športnike: athletes
športu: sport
štiri: four
štirideset: forty
štirikrat: four times
štirinajst: fourteen
štiristo: four hundred
štrideset: forty
študenti: students
žaba: frog
žabi: frog
žalost: sadness
žalosten: sad
žalostno: sadly
že: already
želimo: we want
želodec: stomach
ženo: wife
žensk: women
ženska: woman
ženske: women
ženski: female
žensko: female
žival: animal
živali: animals
živaljo: animal
živi: lives
živimo: we live
žlica: spoon